Weekend Projects with Bre Pettis: Make a Joule Thief | Evil Mad Scientist Laboratories Evil Mad Scientist Laboratories Making the world a better place, one Evil Mad Scientist at a time. Menu Skip to content PRODUCTS BLOG FORUMS ABOUT CONTACT Search for: Weekend Projects with Bre Pettis: Make a Joule Thief By Windell Oskay on November 2, 2007 In this week&#8217;s Weekend Projects video podcast , Make Magazine&#8217;s Bre Pettis and I show you how to make a Joule Thief. The PDF file that goes with the podcast is here (450 kB PDF file). So whatsa Joule Thief? It&#8217;s a little wisp of a circuit that allows you to drive a blue or white LED from a low voltage. Normally, if you want to light up a blue or white LED you need to provide it with 3 &#8211; 3.5 V, like from a 3 V lithium coin cell. But a 1.5 V battery like a AA cell simply will not work . But using the Joule Thief, it works like a charm. Not only does it work with a brand new battery, but it works until the battery is nearly dead&#8211; down to 0.3 V. That&#8217;s well below the point where your other toys will tell you the battery is dead, so it can steal every last joule of energy from the battery (hence the name). To learn how to make one, watch the video , which is available in a variety of formats. The original site where we learned about the Joule thief shows you how to make a miniature version of this circuit, such that you can fit it in a tiny flashlight. However, in the video we show you how to make it big, large enough (1) to make with clumsy hands and (2) that you can see what we&#8217;re doing. After the jump, some detailed photos of how the coil is wound in case you need more detail than in the video. It&#8217;s a little hard to see through my fingers in the video, so here&#8217;s the detailed view of the coil and winding your own. First, here is a selection of ferrite toroids, inductors, and transformers that are suitable for using to make a Joule Thief. Depending on the type that you start with, you may be able to use the existing wires or need to take them off and wind it yourself. To wind your own coil, start with two colors of insulated wire and a bare ferrite toroid. Take the two strands of wire through the center of the toroid. Keeping the two strands together, wrap them around and through the toroid again. Keeping the two wires together, make a few more turns through the center. Keep winding until you fit as many turns as will fit in a single layer around the toroid, typically 7-10 turns with thin insulated wire. Clip the wire leads down. Note that we have two pairs of wires: 