The Data Prevention Manifesto here --> --> --> --> --> --> Welcome --> --> --> --> --> --> artworks --> writings --> media --> --> contact --> --> --> English French Spanish ...by the Plumbing Birds The Data Prevention Manifesto The privacy discourse sputtered out of steam. This has lead to the current stalemate: we know we're observed, traced and tracked, but pretend it's not happening or nothing to fret about. The question is not when the repressed will return but how? Hackers have been proclaiming that privacy has been dead for decades, that everything can and will be captured, stored and analyzed. And they were right. So, what's to be done? What's the best way to protect one's self if not prevent to transmit data in the first place? Effectual hindrance of data coming into being. How to convene a collective dimension of "social networking" without being aggregated in huge data silos extraneous to us, yet profiting on us? How can we reclaim autonomy in our everyday life, knowing that all sorts of sensors, bots and algorithms are active? How can these technologies ever be decommissioned? Are we perhaps waiting for a Great Showdown, a WorldWar, a millennial cyber attack that brings down the entire infrastructure, a bad solar flare or an electronic magnetic pulse knocks out the power grid and erase all hard drives? Or are we about to fall asleep and be numbed forever, having accepted that everything we do, think and desire, can and will be stored, and can be used against us? We need to de-codify contestation in order to multiply the lines of flight outside of calculated settings. We need to ask the hard questions, too. Adblockers, filters, firewalls, close-reading of terms & conditions and online protests against the collection and reselling of private data merely mitigate the problems that are at stake. More to the point, what logic does data protection participate in? Is it, effectively, the same logic it aims to cloak and hide from? Why do we think life can be informationalized? What desire feeds the notion that big data can be transformed into a knowable, manipulated, gamed, anticipated, preempted, capitalized and controlled life? Are we hedging and feeding Unicorns or Frankensteins? We're not talking about the weather. Let's move from protection to the design of an anti-serum, or rather a deep serum that not merely responds. Our credo is: do not feed the platforms. We're proposing creative sabotage, concrete forms of prevention that undermine the 'big data' regime on all levels, from the molar to the molecular. Let's take concrete steps towards an ov