Knitty: Spring 2007 &lt; click for more! By Isela G. Phelps A small spool knitter was my first introduction to the knitting world. I was young and rambunctious and the only way for my Grandma to keep me out of trouble was to sit me down and give me some yarn. I remember sitting by her side knitting away, she knitting away on a pretty sweater while I knitted a cord long enough to wrap around the world! A few decades later, I can say that I have graduated from my small four-prong spool knitter to a bigger spool knitter. Instead of miles of cord, I am now creating accessories and knitwear items. You have probably seen them at the stores, colorful circles with pegs poking out of one of the sides. They come in circular and rectangular shapes in vivid colors that attract your eye. These are modern knitting looms, although historically they have been known by many names: knitting wheels, knitting frames, rake knitters, French Knitters, corkers, and spools. Loom knitting traces its existence as far back as the 16th century. Mary Thomas&rsquo; Knitting Book, tells us that frame-knitting&rsquo;s noble origins began as finger knitting, followed soon after by the spool knitter. Small spool knitters were once used to make long pieces of cord that were later turned into household items such as rope, rugs and even blankets. Just like in needle knitting, the stitches on a knitting loom are formed by interconnecting loops that become a piece of fabric. The pegs function as needles; each peg holds one loop that becomes a stitch. The yarn sits around the pegs. The knitter comes and wraps each of the pegs, then lifts the bottom loop over and off, letting the loop drop to the inside of the loom. Each time the knitter lifts a loop over and off, a stitch is created. Usually, you will see chunky stockinette knit hats demonstrated alongside the knitting looms in craft shops. But we can create much more than just simple stockinette. Like needle knitting, loom knitters have at their disposal the purl stitch and, combined with the knit stitch, an arsenal of hundreds of stitch patterns. At one point, the designs were limited to only knit and purl combinations but recently, loom knitting has seen a tremendous breakthrough. Now we can knit simple lace patterns, cable designs, and even stranded colour knitting. Just like needles come in different sizes, knitting looms come in different sizes too. The knitting loom standards are still being established by the industry but you will be able to find some popular sizes. These are commonly known in the industry as &ldquo;loom gauge&rdquo;, n