The Lost Art of Knitting Nancies THE LOST ART OF KNITTING NANCYS Pictures and instructions on how to make and use them (Viewed best in Internet Explorer. Some other browsrs may not be able to open the image files. Click on main site to browse 70 other topics ranging from exotic kaleidoscope designs to the strange world of lucid dreaming. NEW!!! Jump down to the Innovations knitting machine review.) Whether you call them Knitting Nancys, Bizzy Lizzys, knitting mushrooms, knitting spools, corkers, peg knitters, knitting nobbys (or knitting noddys) or knitting knobbys, these knitting devices all owe their existence to the medieval lucet. The lucet is a two pronged fork with a hole in the handle. It's used by threading yarn through the hole then in a figure eight around the prongs. The yarn is laid above one of the figure eight's loops and the loop is picked up by a needle and carried over the top of the prong. The lucet is rotated one-half turn, carrying the yarn above the second loop, and the process repeated. The yarn trailing down through the hole is given a tug to draw the knitted braid down through it. The cords so produced where used as piping to edge dresses. This is also refered to as French Knitting. (In Germany they're called Nahliesle.) Knitting Nancys are four-prong variants of the lucet. Versions like the one pictured above used to be made out of wooden thread spools, something difficult to do in these modern times since thread spools are now plastic. (Craft stores sometimes carry wood spools.) Yarn is fed down through the hole and left to hang. Sometimes a weight is clipped to the knitted braid, which actually a tube, to help pull it down. (There are more photos and explanations of the starting and knitting process farther down this page.) The yarn is then wrapped in a four point figure eight around the nails. The following diagram shows the pattern for an advanced form of the knitting spool, which uses loops of wire instead of nails: The knitting is then accomplished by holding the spool between the index finger and thumb while the yarn is held against the palm by the other three fingers. The incoming yarn is guided so that it lies above the yarn loops already wrapped around the nails or prongs. The spool is given a quarter turn, a needle is used to carry the loop up and over the nail or prong, and the knitted yarn trailing down the hole is given a tug. Repeat the process of carrying a loop over a nail 400 times and you'll have a foot of braid. After making yard s of braid, it can be used to make trivets, appliques, dolls, and so on. These br