Homepage - Quantified Self --> --> --> --> About What is Quantified Self? Learn How We Work Article 27 Access Campaign Resources for Scholars & Healthcare Workers Team & Contact Subscribe to our Newsletter Get Started New to Quantified Self? We help you make discoveries using your own data. Find some good tips for newcomers on our “Get Started” page. Useful tips for newcomers. Show&Tell Get inspiration and ideas from hundreds of self-tracking projects documented in our community archive, searchable by tools and topics. Our archive of hundreds of self-tracking projects. Podcasts Self tracking projects from our community archive --> Blog Essays, links, and short posts from Quantified Self participants on the culture, tools, and methods of self-tracking. Posts on self-tracking culture, tools, and methods. Events Find your local QS Meetup, learn how to start your own QS group, and register for our annual conference. Join national, international, and local QS events. Forum Ask questions and help others by sharing advice and knowledge about self-tracking tools and methods. Ask questions and share knowledge with the QS community. --> Quantified Self Labs is dedicated to a harassment-free event experience for everyone. &copy;2018 Quantified Self --> The Keating Memorial Self Research Group Would you like to get help with your self-research project from an active, experienced group of peers? You’re invited to join the Keating Memorial Self Research group. We meet every Thursday at 10am Pacific time. You can find the agenda, notes & links in the full post. --> --> New Show&Tell Event: Tracking Blood Glucose --> Please join us for an hour of short "QS Show&Tell" talks about diet and metabolic discoveries using personal science. This session will focus on minimally invasive blood glucose monitor and meal and activity tracking with Nutrisense. Get Started Do you want to start a self-tracking project? Here are some tips. Forum Post your questions and share your knowledge. Show & Tell Self tracking projects from our community archive. Blog Thinking about everyday science. The Keating Memorial Self Research Group Would you like to get help with your self-research project from an active, experienced group of peers? You’re invited to join the Keating Memorial Self Research group. We meet every Thursday at 10am Pacific time. You can find the agenda, notes & links in the full post. Gary Wolf --> Astronauts We The Scientists, a new book by Amy Dockser Marcus, tells the story of a group of families who force research attention on a rare disease Gary Wolf --> Events See all --