Literature: In Other Worlds by Margaret Atwood | stitching worlds Events Process Speculation Study Experimentation Reflection &#038; Dissemination About Research Topic Network Research Plan Contact Press Literature: In Other Worlds by Margaret Atwood November 15, 2015 Atwood, Margaret . In Other Worlds: Science Fiction and the Human Imagination . London: Virago, 2012. In Other Worlds is a collection of essays through which Margaret Atwood reveals details of her “lifelong” relationship with science fiction (SF) and other related literary forms both as a reader and an author. Margaret Atwood had been using the term “speculative fiction” in describing the three full-length fiction novels she had written, The Handmaid’s Tale , Oryx and Crake , and The Year of the Flood . Atwood’s choice of terms was then strictly criticized by the SF writer Ursula K. Le Guin in an article she wrote in the Guardian, which sparked a debate among the two and other SF authors over the true definition and borders of the genre SF. In Other Worlds , curiously enough, is dedicated to Ursula K. Le Guin. A large portion of the book seems to be Atwood’s answer to Le Guin, elucidating where Atwood places the somewhat permeable borders between SF proper, speculative fiction, fantasy and other literary forms. Selected Quotes: Defining the borders of Science Fiction, Speculative Fiction, Fantasy and Slipstream Margaret Atwood: “To date, I have written three full-length fictions that nobody would ever class as sociological realism. […] Are these books “science fiction”? I am often asked. Though sometimes I am not asked, but told: I am a silly nit or a snob or a genre traitor for dodging the term because these books are as much “science fiction” as Nineteen Eighty Four is, whatever I might say. But is Nineteen Eighty-Four as much “science fiction” as The Martian Chronicles? I might reply. I would answer not, and therein lies the distinction.” [1] Ursula K. Le Guin: “To my mind, The Handmaid&#8217;s Tale, Oryx and Crake and now The Year of the Flood all exemplify one of the things science fiction does, which is to extrapolate imaginatively from current trends and events to a near-future that&#8217;s half prediction, half satire. But Margaret Atwood doesn&#8217;t want any of her books to be called science fiction. In her recent, brilliant essay collection, Moving Targets , she says that everything that happens in her novels is possible and may even have already happened, so they can&#8217;t be science fiction, which is &#8220;fiction in which things happen that are not possible today&#8221;. T