Kyle McDonald Kyle McDonald [email&#160;protected] newsletter Biography Kyle McDonald is an artist working with code. He crafts interactive installations, sneaky interventions, playful websites, workshops, and toolkits for other artists working with code. Exploring possibilities of new technologies: to understand how they affect society, to misuse them, and build alternative futures; aiming to share a laugh, spark curiosity, create confusion, and share spaces with magical vibes. Working with machine learning, computer vision, social and surveillance tech spanning commercial and arts spaces. Previously adjunct professor at NYU&#39;s ITP , member of F.A.T. Lab , community manager for openFrameworks , and artist in residence at STUDIO for Creative Inquiry at CMU, and YCAM in Japan. Work commissioned and shown around the world, including: the V&A , NTT ICC , Ars Electronica , Sonar , Todays Art , and Eyebeam . Selected Work Apocalypse Early Warning System 2026 A real-time dashboard that watches private jets as an early warning signal for an imminent nuclear apocalypse. By comparing public ADS-B data against recent traffic patterns, it turns elite escape into a noisy measurement system. site code notifications on washington post on vice on straight arrow news on gizmodo on boing boing on the times Local Loquat 2026 A series of small-batch loquat jams, each jar harvested from a single tree and collected from different sites around Los Angeles. The project uses a fleeting urban fruit harvest to reconnect people with the local ecologies that still persist inside the city. instagram all for nothing MyEpstein 2026 An app and browser extension for checking whether people in your world appear in the publicly released Epstein email archive. Contact matching happens privately on-device, making it possible to inspect names, dates, participants, and metadata in a public record that is otherwise difficult to navigate. site TestFlight Chrome extension Study for Self Portrait 2024 A self portrait drawn as a map of ideas, traits, memories, and contradictions. Made in dialogue with a machine, the work asks what remains personal when identity is organized, named, and connected by automation. sotheby's flickr Transformirror 2023 with Daito Manabe and Rhizomatiks Real-time text to image and text to music powering an AI-driven interactive mirror. When everything is imagined by the AI, from the music to the imagery, the prompts, and even the title of the piece, what does it feel like to look in the mirror? video text technical writeup cloud writeup w osaka kikk organism file sao 