Unuseless Music Designs --> Menu Home People Research Publications News Press Contact Unuseless Music Designs A Seriously Absurd Hackathon --> Unuseless Music Designs --> --> Making absurd musical interfaces --> Artists, technologists and makers took part in a hackathon around the themes of absurd musical interfaces, questionable sonic interactions and unworkable music designs. See the Absurd Music Hackathon call for participation A special thank goes to the wonderful team that, in one way or another, made this event possible: Jonathan Winfield, Angela McArthur, Sophie Skach, Charlotte Nordmoen, Andrea Guidi, Jacob Harrison, Robert Jack, Andrew McPherson, Antonella Nonnis, Lia Mice and Nick Bryan-Kinns. The Hackathon was supported by the Media and Arts Technology (MAT) doctoral training centre as part of Inter/sections 2019. --> --> Featured Mentors John Bowers Hannah Perner-Wilson Hannah and John supported the hackthon in a sublime fashion. These mentors have both significant experience in the fields of music technology, craft, research through design and DIY. They were on site for the all duration of the event, guiding and challenging participants from both technical and theoretical viewpoints. --> Useless (but not worthless) music designs Juan Martinez Avila --> A seriously silly guitar strap: augmenting guitar using e-textile technique. A stretchable strap controlling the sound produced by the instrument. Subverting the ways we think about instruments and their attachments. When absurdity reveals the future of music technology. Lia Mice & Tijs Ham --> It’s time to magnify standard music controllers. How music production and performance would change if we use 1.5 meter long slider and knobs with 1 meter of radius? The latest frontiers in high definition technology, ridiculously giant controllers and unpredictable sonic engines. Andrea Urist --> Andrea worked out a beautiful overly complicated sonic machine: grab this stuffed fluffy thing to get a sound back! Repurposing a vintage toy crane motor in a silly sonic experience. This unuseless design plays with arcade games esthetic and expectations: here it is almost impossible not to win! Maria Svahn, Josefine Holling & Annie Tadne --> Introducing the Bug Orchestra. A fully equipped facility to elicit animals’ musical creativity (including red carpet, dance floor and rave area). An artistic residency in which a small ensemble of robotic bugs compose and and perform new music out of quite unpredictable endeavors. Simon Duck --> How to design a keyboard that minimises performance anxiety? Simon came out wi