Keeper of our collective consciousness (2014-2020) &#8211; Memo Akten --> Work Writing Invited essays, chapters&#8230; PhD Thesis Peer-reviewed journal articles and conference proceedings Selection of other writings Talks Tech About Bio Awards, Fellowships, Commission, etc. Exhibitions and Performances Publications Bibliography and Press Invited Talks and Panels PhD Education Headshots Work Writing Invited essays, chapters&#8230; PhD Thesis Peer-reviewed journal articles and conference proceedings Selection of other writings Talks Tech About Bio Awards, Fellowships, Commission, etc. Exhibitions and Performances Publications Bibliography and Press Invited Talks and Panels PhD Education Headshots Keeper of our collective consciousness (2014-2020) 2014. Medium (Versions): 1. Video; 2. Six giclee prints on A1 Hahnemühle Pearl (285gsm) mounted on aluminium (2mm), backlit with LEDs (Google colors); 3. Live performance. HD Video duration: 2:24. Technique : Computational big-data-driven poetry. Keeper of our Collective Consciousness. Installation view. “Mind the Deep”, Ming Contemporary Art Museum, Shanghai (2019). Courtesy of Ming Contemporary Art Museum. As part of my research-based practice, for over a decade I have been investigating internet-based Big Data-driven algorithmic surveillance (now called ‘AI’), and the new rituals and myths emerging in this climate, exploring the tensions between intimacy, privacy, security and surveillance capitalism. There are many possible flavours of AI. The version dominant in our lives today – in a trend that started over a decade ago – is a Big-Data driven AI (i.e. using large neural networks), scraped from a collective record of our online experience, both public and private. Keeper of our Collective Consciousness (KooCC) is a poem. It’s a collaboration with a machine, one of the first Big-Data driven poetic collaborations. The work is a collaboration with Google. Not people working at Google, but actual Google, the search engine. Today, this trope is perhaps familiar, with KooCC as an early prototype for a new generation of Big-Data driven AI-collaborative poetry. And the work is actually more a collection of prayers. We have a very intimate connection with the cloud. We confide in it. We confess to it. We appeal to it. We share secrets with it, secrets that we wouldn’t share with our family or closest friends. And Google is the Keeper of our collective consciousness. It sees everything we see, knows everything we know, feels everything we feel. It was ancient religions that imposed omnipotent, omniscient and omnipresen